Probabilistic models, compressible interactions, and neural coding
This repository contains a cleaned and documented implementation of codes used for the manuscript. The experimental is available from [1] and [2].

[1] Tkačik, G., Marre, O., Amodei, D., Schneidman, E., Bialek, W., & Berry, M. J. (2014). Searching for collective behavior in a large network of sensory neurons. PLoS computational biology, 10(1), e1003408.
[2] Meshulam, L., Gauthier, J. L., Brody, C. D., Tank, D. W., & Bialek, W. (2017). Collective behavior of place and non-place neurons in the hippocampal network. Neuron, 96(5), 1178-1191.

Figure 5 and figure 6: An effective-field analysis for binary neural population recordings. The code estimates the conditional effective field of a target neuron given the state of a downstream group of neurons, computes uncertainty by repeated subsampling, and fits low-order interaction models to the inferred field.
Overview
The workflow is:
	1	Load binary neural activity data.
	2	Select a target neuron and a downstream group of K neurons.
	3	Encode the downstream population state as a binary integer.
	4	Estimate the conditional firing probability of the target neuron for each observed downstream state.
	5	Convert that probability into an effective field
	6	Estimate error bars by repeated subsampling across experiments.
	7	Fit a low-order interaction model (for example, pairwise) to the inferred effective field.
Input data
The repository does not include the original datasets. You must provide your own files and update the paths in main() accordingly. See references above to access the original data.
